ColourTech Group Reflection

All of us believe that over the weeks working together many things have gone well, from our communication, to task delegation and our end product. Our ability to work together seamlessly despite all having busy lives is what stood out to us most. With some of us working, having families to look after, both of these at the same time and dealing with personal and/or environmental issues we still all made time for each other to support and encourage each other to give the best we could give to work all with a smile on our faces knowing we were doing it as a team. 

While we did work very well as a team there is always room for improvement, we think a good improvement would be for everyone to attend group meetings more frequently. There were members that made almost all, if not every session but there were some that didn’t and we know life does get busy sometimes but maybe one or two sessions more could have made a difference in the long run.

As for something that surprised us and something we learnt about groups, in this case it is the same thing and that’s how much we have one another’s back. We all are more introverted then extroverted and know it can be hard to put ourselves into a group scenario without some feeling of being uncomfortable, so we all knew to look out for everyone. For example, if a member had something come up and wasn’t able to do some work at the time, others would put their hand up to help them out, no questions asked. Or, if a member was feeling down or stressed, there was always the question “are you okay?” being asked. It’s the amount the groups mentality to succeed and look after one another that both surprised us and gave us a huge learning curve about the way groups operate.
 
This time around we used GitHub far more then we used Teams to upload and edit work. It showed us everyone working on parts of the project with daily and sometimes hours updates which really demonstrated our groups want to work hard and together to complete this project to a high standard. 
